Allow named Arguments to be passed to Dto (#11575)
doctrine/doctrine2: docs/en/reference/dql-doctrine-query-language.rst

            // Bind values to the object properties.
        }
    }

    class AddressDTO
    {
        public function __construct(string $street, string $city, string $zip)
        {
            // Bind values to the object properties.
        }
    }

.. code-block:: php

    <?php
    $query = $em->createQuery('SELECT NEW CustomerDTO(c.name, e.email, NEW AddressDTO(a.street, a.city, a.zip)) FROM Customer c JOIN c.email e JOIN c.address a');
    $users = $query->getResult(); // array of CustomerDTO

Note that you can only pass scalar expressions or other Data Transfer Objects to the constructor.

> If you use your data-transfer objects for multiple queries but not necessarily with the same parameters,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use your data transfer objects for multiple queries but not necessarily with the same parameters,
```

> you can use named arguments or variadic arguments, add ``named`` keyword in your DQL querie before your Dto :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you can use named arguments or variadic arguments, add the ``named`` keyword in your DQL query before your DTO :
```

> you can use named arguments or variadic arguments, add the ``named`` keyword in your DQL query before your DTO :

Reviewer: Here you mentioned named arguments and variadic arguments. Is it necessary to add the `NAMED` keyword to use variadic arguments?

Author: variadic argument can be used without ``named`` keyword but the array will be "indexed" while with ``named``it will be associated

> .. code-block:: php

Reviewer: Because of what precedes, I'm expecting to see a DQL query. I think you should reorganize this.
If you use your data transfer objects for multiple queries, and you would rather not have to
specify arguments that precede the ones you are really interested in, you can use named arguments.

Consider the following DTO, which uses optional arguments:

// code for CustomerDTO here

You can specify arbitrary arguments in an arbitrary order by using the named argument syntax, and the ORM will try to match argument names with the selected column names.
The syntax relies on the `NAMED` keyword, like so:

    <?php

    class CustomerDTO
    {
        public function __construct(
                public string|null $name = null,
                public string|null $email = null,
                public string|null $city = null,
                public mixed|null $value = null,

>                 public AddressDTO|null $address = null,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            public string|null $name = null,
            public string|null $email = null,
            public string|null $city = null,
            public mixed|null $value = null,
            public AddressDTO|null $address = null,
```

        ) {
        }
    }

And then you can select the columns you want in the order you want, and the ORM will try to match argument names with the selected columns names :

.. code-block:: php

    <?php
    $query = $em->createQuery('SELECT NEW NAMED CustomerDTO(a.city, c.name) FROM Customer c JOIN c.address a');
    $users = $query->getResult(); // array of CustomerDTO

    // CustomerDTO => {name : 'SMITH', email: null, city: 'London', value: null}

> ORM will also look column aliases before columns names :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ORM will also give precedence to column aliases over column names :
```

.. code-block:: php

    <?php
    $query = $em->createQuery('SELECT NEW NAMED CustomerDTO(c.name, CONCAT(a.city, ' ' , a.zip) AS value) FROM Customer c JOIN c.address a');
    $users = $query->getResult(); // array of CustomerDTO

    // CustomerDTO => {name : 'DOE', email: null, city: null, value: 'New York 10011'}

> For aliases a field you can use SQL notation with `AS` keyword, or the PHP named arguments notation :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to  alias a field you can either use the SQL keyword ``AS``, or PHP's named arguments syntax :
```

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

>     $query = $em->createQuery('SELECT NEW NAMED CustomerDTO(name: c.name, value: CONCAT(a.city, ' ' , a.zip)) FROM Customer c JOIN c.address a');

Reviewer: The example only illustrates the second method. Also, you are saying "For aliases a field", but with the second method, there is no aliasing taking place at all, right?

Author: It's for showing we can make a mix of field names and aliases

Reviewer: In the example though, it's 100% field names, right? Or is there an alias I am missing?

    $users = $query->getResult(); // array of CustomerDTO

    // CustomerDTO => {name : 'DOE', email: null, city: null, value: 'New York 10011'}

> The ``NAMED`` keyword must be added to all dto you want to instantiate :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``NAMED`` keyword must precede all DTO you want to instantiate :
```

.. code-block:: php

    <?php
    $query = $em->createQuery('SELECT NEW NAMED CustomerDTO(name: c.name, address: NEW NAMED AddressDTO(a.street, a.city, a.zip)) FROM Customer c JOIN c.address a');
    $users = $query->getResult(); // array of CustomerDTO

    // CustomerDTO => {name : 'DOE', email: null, city: null, value: 'New York 10011'}

> If two fields have the same name/alias, a RepeatedAliasException is thrown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If two fields have the same name/alias, a ``RepeatedAliasException`` is thrown.
```

> If a field without column name (functions for example) has no alias set, a MissingAliasException is thrown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a field without a column name (when using functions for example) has no alias set, a ``MissingAliasException`` is thrown.
```

Reviewer: [When I use a function](https://sqlfiddle.com/postgresql/online-compiler?id=26728015-ebc0-4603-8e34-69c6cc60fa4a) the resulting column does have a name :thinking:

            public AddressDTO|null $address = null,
        ) {
        }
    }

You can specify arbitrary arguments in an arbitrary order by using the named argument syntax, and the ORM will try to match argument names with the selected column names.
The syntax relies on the NAMED keyword, like so:

.. code-block:: php

    <?php
    $query = $em->createQuery('SELECT NEW NAMED CustomerDTO(a.city, c.name) FROM Customer c JOIN c.address a');
    $users = $query->getResult(); // array of CustomerDTO

    // CustomerDTO => {name : 'SMITH', email: null, city: 'London', value: null}

ORM will also give precedence to column aliases over column names :

.. code-block:: php

    <?php
    $query = $em->createQuery('SELECT NEW NAMED CustomerDTO(c.name, CONCAT(a.city, ' ' , a.zip) AS value) FROM Customer c JOIN c.address a');
    $users = $query->getResult(); // array of CustomerDTO

    // CustomerDTO => {name : 'DOE', email: null, city: null, value: 'New York 10011'}

To define a custom name for a DTO constructor argument, you can either alias the column with the ``AS`` keyword, or with PHP's named arguments syntax.

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

>     $query = $em->createQuery('SELECT NEW NAMED CustomerDTO(name: c.name, value: CONCAT(a.city, ' ' , a.zip)) FROM Customer c JOIN c.address a');

Reviewer 2: I would prefer if we have only this syntax available `CustomerDTO(name: c.name, value: CONCAT(a.city, ' ' , a.zip))` and not the two above that implicitly map the name or the AS naming.

This would in my opinion also make the `NAMED` keyword obsolete, which I would like to get rid of as well.

The goal should be that named arguments syntax looks exactly the same as in PHP itself, because the `NEW className` somewhat implies that this is what DQL supports.

Author: Disable implicity map means that we have to write all the field's names for our queries, instead of add a keyword "named".

Remove AS keyword means for those who actually have a named array as result (with AS keyword) to rewrite all the names while in my case just have to add NEW NAMED myDTO(...) and it's done.

Forcing to write: name: c.name, lastname: c.lastname, age: c.age, birthdate: c.birthdate, ... is in my opinion a waste of time for the few fields to rename.

For those as me who have helpers to select fields to add in queries, remove NAMED keyword means to be obliged to name ALL the fields.

As I said in descritpion, final goal is to be able to write c.* and have all the fields by the names, 

That's why the first version of this PR have only AS keyword and not the 'PHP syntax'

Reviewer 2: @eltharin I discussed with @greg0ire and @derrabus at our Doctrine core team meetup in person, and I guess the main thing is that we want to avoid adding 2 syntaxes (implicit and AS naming, plus name double colon). We considered both and your arguments and then we would rather remove the PHP-style named arguments syntax and only keep the examples 1+2, so the following should be allowed:

* SELECT NEW NAMED CustomerDTO(a.city, c.name) FROM Customer c JOIN c.address a')
* SELECT NEW NAMED CustomerDTO(c.name, CONCAT(a.city, ' ' , a.zip) AS value) FROM Customer c JOIN c.address a

and this syntax should be removed again:

* SELECT NEW NAMED CustomerDTO(name: c.name, value: CONCAT(a.city, ' ' , a.zip)) FROM Customer c JOIN c.address a

Everything else is 👍 from me.

Author: thank you to all three of you  (and other mainteners) for being so open-minded and for your work.

	
Note that you can only pass scalar expressions or other Data Transfer Objects to the constructor.

> If you use your data-transfer objects for multiple query but not ever the same parameters, you can use named arguments or variadic arguments, add ``WithNamedArguments`` to your Dto :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use your data-transfer objects for multiple queries but not necessarily with the same parameters,
you can use named arguments or variadic arguments, add ``WithNamedArguments`` to your Dto :
```

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    use Doctrine\ORM\WithNamedArguments;

    class CustomerDTO implements WithNamedArguments
    {

>         public function __construct(public string|null $name = null, public string|null $email = null, public string|null $city = null, public mixed|null $value = null)

Reviewer: Let's use linebreaks.

```suggestion
        public function __construct(
                public string|null $name = null,
                public string|null $email = null,
                public string|null $city = null,
                public mixed|null $value = null,
        )
```

        {
        }
    }

> And then you can select the fields you want in order you want :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And then you can select the fields you want in the order you want :
```

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

>     $query = $em->createQuery('SELECT NEW CustomerDTO(a.city, c.name) FROM Customer c JOIN c.address a');

Reviewer: Wait so what happens here? Which fields of the DTO are supposed to get hydrated? Hydrating `CustomerDTO::$name` with a city feels wrong :thinking:

Author: No, it's exactly the case I want, As the args are named, it's city and name from the Dto witch are filled .
Maybe I have to print the Dto Output for better understand

Reviewer: Yes, and also, you could explain what is going to happen: `And then you can select the fields you want in the order you want, and the ORM will try to match argument names with the selected field names`. If you do that, you should probably explain what happens if one of the selected field matches, but not the other. Or what happens if we do `SELECT NEW CustomerDTO(a.city, b.city) FROM …`

    $users = $query->getResult(); // array of CustomerDTO

> you can either aliases column :

Reviewer: What do you mean here? I would expect an "or" close in your sentence, like "You can either do this or do this".

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

>     $query = $em->createQuery('SELECT NEW CustomerDTO(c.name, CONCAT(a.city, ' ' , a.zip) AS value) FROM Customer c JOIN c.address a');

Reviewer: Did you consider a syntax closer to PHP, like `value: CONCAT(a.city, ' ', a.zip)`?

Author: I can think about it but since we are in a SQL/DQL query I stayed in this way

Author: It works, but I really hate this notation in an SQL query, so I left AS keywork working too.

	
Note that you can only pass scalar expressions or other Data Transfer Objects to the constructor.

If you use your data-transfer objects for multiple queries but not necessarily with the same parameters,
you can use named arguments or variadic arguments, add ``WithNamedArguments`` to your Dto :

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    use Doctrine\ORM\WithNamedArguments;

>     class CustomerDTO implements WithNamedArguments

Reviewer 3: Now that you've removed that interface, the documentation needs to be adjusted.

    {
        public function __construct(
                public string|null $name = null,
                public string|null $email = null,
                public string|null $city = null,
                public mixed|null $value = null,

>         )
>         {

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        ) {
```

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    class CustomerDTO
    {
        public function __construct(
                public string|null $name = null,
                public string|null $email = null,
                public string|null $city = null,
                public mixed|null $value = null,
                public AddressDTO|null $address = null,
        ) {
        }
    }

And then you can select the fields you want in the order you want, and the ORM will try to match argument names with the selected field names :

.. code-block:: php

    <?php
    $query = $em->createQuery('SELECT NEW NAMED CustomerDTO(a.city, c.name) FROM Customer c JOIN c.address a');
    $users = $query->getResult(); // array of CustomerDTO

    // CustomerDTO => {name : 'SMITH', email: null, city: 'London', value: null}

ORM will also look column aliases before columns names :

.. code-block:: php

    <?php
    $query = $em->createQuery('SELECT NEW NAMED CustomerDTO(c.name, CONCAT(a.city, ' ' , a.zip) AS value) FROM Customer c JOIN c.address a');
    $users = $query->getResult(); // array of CustomerDTO

> 	// CustomerDTO => {name : 'DOE', email: null, city: null, value: 'New York 10011'}

Reviewer: You used a tab here. Please check the whole diff and make sure you never use tabs.

For aliases a field you can use SQL notation with `AS` keyword, or the PHP named arguments notation :

.. code-block:: php

	<?php
	$query = $em->createQuery('SELECT NEW NAMED CustomerDTO(name: c.name, value: CONCAT(a.city, ' ' , a.zip)) FROM Customer c JOIN c.address a');
	$users = $query->getResult(); // array of CustomerDTO

	// CustomerDTO => {name : 'DOE', email: null, city: null, value: 'New York 10011'}

> The `NAMED` keywork must be added to all dto you want to instantiate :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``NAMED`` keyword must be added to all dto you want to instantiate :
```

.. code-block:: php

	<?php
	$query = $em->createQuery('SELECT NEW NAMED CustomerDTO(name: c.name, address: NEW NAMED AddressDTO(a.street, a.city, a.zip)) FROM Customer c JOIN c.address a');
	$users = $query->getResult(); // array of CustomerDTO

	// CustomerDTO => {name : 'DOE', email: null, city: null, value: 'New York 10011'}

> Be careful, if two fields have the same name/alias, second will erase first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Be careful, if two fields have the same name/alias, the second one will overwrite the first one.
```

> Be careful, if two fields have the same name/alias, second will erase first.

Reviewer: Should it instead throw an exception?

> If you put an argument name empty (for functions) or not in constructor argument list, ORM will throw an error.

Reviewer: > If you put an argument name empty (for functions)

What do you mean by that?

> If you put an argument name empty (for functions) or not in constructor argument list, ORM will throw an error.

Reviewer: An error or an exception?

Author: actually an error, thorwn by PHP and ORM : "Error: Unknown named parameter $"

Reviewer: Sorry, where in the code is it thrown? I can't find it.
